the client doesn't always know
what's good for him or like like a lot
of clients don't really know marketing
they don't know marketing they know like
what they want to achieve but they don't
know what you know the exact tactics
they want to kind of
you know use to get to get them there
and i think like the real intellectual
kind of thing here the riddle the kind
of real here is to figure out you know
what the client really wants
welcome to 20 minute leaders just sit
back relax and learn from the leaders of
today it's a journey each one is
different unique inspiring let's get
started
[Music]
this episode is powered by j ventures a
community driven vc fund in silicon
valley in partnership with lumitec
sponsored by homework ventures hippo
insurance oppos labs synergy global
hillel at stanford leap birthright excel
serona partners and in media partnership
with ctec
let's talk about marketing and how
companies can get their message across
meet omri hurwitz the ceo of amrit
hurwitz media
omri is a tech marketer and media
strategist his client portfolio consists
of some of the leading companies and
startups in tech he writes for several
media channels including forbes the
times of israel new york tech news break
the venture occasion hacker noon vocal
media benzinga and more
so marie you know media specialist
strategist you know you're a writer
yourself i really enjoy reading a lot of
the articles that you're that you're
publishing on some of the most amazing
journals in the world but but but you're
also working strategically with some of
the leading startups in the israel
ecosystem tell me a little bit how you
entered yourself you know the
storytelling world or media presence pr
world
awesome man so that's a really good
question so actually
i started out you know i i
grew up i was born here in israel grew
up in california
in sunnyvale uh then moved with my
family back here to israel did my army
service here then i moved kind of back
to the states for a while came back and
since i kind of came back to israel
after you know after my army service and
after i've done my stint in the us
i i was really passionate about like
digital marketing and you know all this
kind of that kind of niche and i
actually started out doing pr in the
travel industry
which is kind of it's kind of weird kind
of you know that you don't hear about
that a lot so i did pr in the travel
industry i had a client in cyprus and
toughly seen and basically what i did i
was i was like you know i was a 20 i
don't know 20 something year old kid
kind of you know uh um doing weekends in
cyprus and kind of you know managing you
know my clients kind of business over
there and and it was pretty it was an
awesome experience you know it was a
young age kind of doing pr and kind of
meeting with you know big business
sharks as they say you know in cyprus
and getting a lot of experience
uh the only kind of the only
kind of thing that i needed you know to
kind of expand was on the kind of the
financial side so obviously tech was
starting to you know maneuver into
becoming you know kind of a big thing
and i got a great offer from y'all
israel he's um
he's the founder of white digital he's
probably believing to be a marketer in
israel right now and i get an offer to
be uh working work for him on you know
and doing advertising for startups and
tech companies
and and you know i kind of i kind of
shifted into that and kind of you know
and loved working with tech companies
and startups and i was doing advertising
for them you know for startups like
drivenet garnicore a lot of kind of big
names and what happened is i started
actually doing a podcast so i had you
know
i had uh bobby francis who i know was on
your show as well and i had zoro
lefkovic
you know probably the leading pc in the
world right now um probably a legend you
know that kind of
that kind of feel
so and that gave me like a lot of you
know kind of like uh
niche publicity i would call that
and
like the easiest transition from that
was to to open up you know lawmakers
media which is a pr agency because i i
felt like pr is more of my thing you
know storytelling is more of my thing
and
that's uh that's what what led me to
kind of pr and do storytelling you know
for startups
beautiful okay so so storytelling for
startups is it you know
how much strategy is there even when you
know i'm a company i have a product i
have a vision i want to now share this
vision with the world not just through a
comprehensive deck or a long newsletter
but i wanted to to share it in a way
that it'll be half form of entertainment
half educative how much strategy really
does one need to put into this type of
idea
that's a great question michael so i
tell you my kind of stick on it so
strategy is super important right you
know everybody's you know cmos
everyone's talking about strategies
value strategy but i feel like today you
know in our modern super fast-paced pr
landscape uh super you know uh
fast-paced media landscape it's not only
about strategy it's more about actual
tactics
so once you have a strategy you know
strategy is pretty simple like in my
opinion it's where the company is right
now you know who are the competitors and
where that company started wants to be
you know you know and how you want to be
recognized right like what do you want
like third-party people saying about you
and
what i kind of found out you know from
working with a lot of startups is that
the tactics part is much more important
than the strategy so once you kind of
build out a strategy which which is you
know where you are right now where you
want to be where you compared to your
competitors what the market sentiment is
you know what what third-party people
are saying about you compared to your
competitors
the real really important step is
actually you know how do you strategize
the tactics you know like what
journalists are you guys talking to you
know what publications you want to
target what social media like what what
kind of stuff you want to do in social
media are you going to be more ads
focused you know linkedin has google ads
are you going to use are you going to be
more influencer based uh you know i know
you interviewed the vegas ghoul in one
of your last episodes so you know that's
another approach you know you can do the
influence around so there's a lot of
different stuff that it really depends a
lot on like the budget and like to be
transparent and honest with you it
depends a lot on you know the kind of uh
personality the the ceo as or the cmo as
you know what kind of like what they
believe in
you know before we get into
you know understanding how to think
through strategically you know the
actual you know the actual process of
coming out with it with announcements
how do we know what we should be
measuring once the announcement is up
how do you as the markets try to just
know
what is the right thing to be measuring
um and knowing with the success
awesome so that is a really great
question so there's a straightforward
answer and there's kind of you know what
i'm gonna say afterwards so this really
straightforward answer is um
we use software our agency uses a
specific software i don't know if a lot
of agencies use it yet which basically
lets us take each kind of coverage each
kind of article or podcast or whatever
thing we've been able to get our client
in and you know we kind of copy paste
the link and it helps us fetch all the
stats so it helps us patch you know how
many social sharing it got you know how
many views it got how many people
actually read the article how many how
many people shared it you know on like
dark social you know channels like
whatsapp or linkedin or facebook
messenger those kind of stuff so it
gives us a really good picture you know
of kind of
you know how that kind of article or pr
coverage kind of performed so that's
like i think the straightforward answer
kind of thing um the second thing is
that you know i'm a bit i'm a big
believer in media amplification which
basically you know once we kind of get
the like there's a
a a big part is getting you know
coverage for your client but once we got
the coverage we gotta kind of amplify it
on certain channels like hacker news or
indie hackers or reddit or you know
quora or you know um twitter and use
those kind of channels to make that
piece go viral and get more you know
get more eyeballs on it so that's
basically you know how we do it
but
are you are you setting matrix with you
know with the person that is going to be
creating this pr or or creating the the
you know the story are you setting kpis
ahead of time to know whether you're
reaching a success is that usually how
it's done
yeah so we have so yeah so okay so
basically you know the old way of doing
pr is basically you know someone telling
you hey i want uh get me into techcrunch
get me into forms you know that's like
the old way of doing pr
today you know like what what we're
trying to do is kind of come in and say
hey let's be more strategic about it so
okay if we get this tech crunch article
yes you might get get uh you know one
big spike of website visitors you know
in the next uh
two days but we gotta be more strategic
on you know how this kind of plans out
for like long-term kind of strategy
strategizing so basically um to answer
your question yeah we basically sit at
we sit down with them we tell them hey
this is our previous case studies this
is what this article did for this client
this is what we think we can do for you
guys and we gotta set you know the kpis
it's really important for me to say you
know
pr kpis are measured by brand awareness
basically by website visit visitors by
the sentiment there's a way to measure
sentiment value compared to your
competitors
and that's basically you know the kpis
we measure sometimes like a client will
come to me and say listen aren't we the
last um
c-tec article you you you got us in you
know got us a lot of leads you know but
i'll say hey i'm happy you got leech
from that but it's not like i i have no
control and no one has any control if
you know a specific pr kind of item will
give you leads or not it's not
advertising
so that's kind of the kpis kind of kind
of setting
so from the moment that you just died
that you're starting to work with a
company or organization whatever that
has a story to be told
what is the actual process that you
would go through strategically from the
time of the inception to the time where
it's actually time to measure what
happened with the article out live
yeah cool so we have like uh we have
like a document which is you know kind
of thing we go through with each client
which is basically you know who are your
competitors what is the last pr you guys
done what is the last funding round you
guys done what is your business kpis you
know what do you want to achieve you
know what's your business because
business kpis are really different from
media kpis and we kind of need to find a
way to kind of align them you know so if
if a client for example if a client is
looking for funding there's really
specific actions where we want to take
you know if it's to get a piece covered
by a specific influencer that we know
like vcs or more kind of um more kind of
uh they have like a leeway to them and
they kind of read the specific
influencer
or if it's like if they just want to get
like really big brand awareness maybe
you know trying to aim for like a forbes
article is gonna do a better job so
that's like kind of a thing we do
straight on
that's the first step the second step is
actually doing the work so doing the
work is actually pitching actually
communicating with the publications
actually trying to you know finding a
good angle for everything and the third
step is the amplification process of it
all so once you know we've got you know
let's say we're recording this podcast
right once you send me the link when
it's live
we're gonna take it we're gonna amplify
it we're gonna put it on indie hackers
we're going to put it on reddit we're
going to put ads on it we're going to do
a lot of different things to make sure
our target audience is seeing this kind
of interview so we're not you know we're
not just letting you know your audi you
know do the interview and that's it
we're gonna actually amplify it and the
fourth fourth step is kind of after
we've done those three things is we're
looking at the kind of kpis and seeing
how we're gonna do it better for the
next piece or you know so that's kind of
our stick yeah but not a lot of pr
agencies do that yeah how do you how do
you go about even understanding you know
customer behavior and consumer behavior
that that how they're going to be
responding to these stories because
you're also you're working with a
variety of brands on a variety of topics
you sort of have to get into their shoes
and understand okay how do i
strategically understand how the people
that are going to read this whether it's
the general public or more targeted
audience how they're going to be
receptive to this
that's the hardest thing to do that's
the most difficult thing to do and that
is you know what you know me as a
marketer i'm trying to get better every
single day at it and it's a learning
curve i'll give you an example uh we
have a cyber security client of ours
okay so we got him a really good
coverage in a really nice
european publication
and after that they came they came to me
and said listen armory the cyber
security company was
the cyber security not company the cyber
security community is it doesn't like
that specific publication
there's no chance i would have known
that you know because i'm not a cyber
security guy i'm not you know in those
niche communities
and once once they told me that i
thought hey i i told my team actually i
said hey guys listen we had no idea you
know because that publication that we
got them in is like really good for all
of our other clients but for we had to
do a better job in kind of understanding
you know
from their kind of view you know you
said you know being in their shoes kind
of thing
so it's really difficult but like what
we're going to work what we're trying to
do right now is you know kind of uh
reverse engineer it or you know so we
come up we tell the client hey
what is your target publications and we
sometimes do it straight on with a
client and sometimes we do with the
client's prospects so if let's say um
you know we have a client in the cyber
security space and he has uh prospects
where cyber security sees those we will
go directly to those csos and tell them
hey guys um what kind of publications
are you reading you know what are you
consuming so and then kind of you know
take it from there and engineer it from
you know from that way and kind of do it
the other way around right you know kind
of get the end goal in mind and then
kind of see how we kind of go there
instead of
trying to build something you know up
front
i i love it don't worry tell me you know
about yourself a little bit you know
where does this passion for marketing
and passion for
for for storytelling come from where
where is this from yeah so obviously i i
write i love writing so i write for a
lot of publications you know like forbes
and doing in terms of israel and t
pranks and a lot of you know those
publications and i love storytelling so
my favorite hobby actually is watching
movies
watching movies watching tv shows
reading books
so i kind of i kind of try to say okay
actually when i was younger i thought
maybe i would be an actor or a director
or something so and now i kind of took
okay if i'm not an actor or director how
can i be a director in tech like how can
i kind of make produce like movies or tv
shows through you know startups so
that's that's kind of my my thing you
know and that's like how that's why i'm
so passionate about about marketing
because you're essentially creating
storylines in the real world for real
people and real companies
i love it
what has been the most you know
challenging or intellectually
stimulating piece
of your work here you know if you're
looking at your day-to-day work where is
it really that you have to get your mind
really going
ah yeah i think you're gonna love this
so i think like for real i'll be as
transparent as honest i think it's the
actual clients
the actual client so
um
actually minkowski i don't know if you
know him he actually told me that and
i'm starting to realize it now so
there's like in pr storytelling there's
three kind of angles there's a triangle
there's um the client there's the
journalist or the media publication and
there's the audience right so
with like the audience and the media
publication it's kind of more
straightforward it's kind of you know
more easy but the real intellectual
things is with the client because the
client doesn't always know
what's good for him or like he like a
lot of clients don't really know
marketing they don't know marketing they
know like what they want to achieve but
they don't know what you know the exact
tactics they want to kind of
you know use to get to get them there
and i think like the real intellectual
kind of thing here the riddle the kind
of real here is to figure out you know
what the client really wants is it an
ego play does he want to be in forbes
and tell us all his friends he's been on
forbes or does he really want specific
traction for himself you know or for
like for his company for the product for
the service so actually um
there's in israel we see a lot of
employer branding kind of sticks right
i'm not a big fan of it but people do it
they do all those you know fundraising
articles and you know and they talk
about like why their office has you know
a good you know coffee station and even
you know it's
they kind of joked about it you know i
don't know if you've seen with the webos
and everything
so those kind of clients i'm kind of i'm
not really interested in working with
those kind of people i'm more interested
in working with the people who
they really care about technology and
about the service and about the product
and they want to do pr on that
so that that's kind of
to answer your question that's kind of
the the most challenging thing
i love it and and
next to the most challenging thing the
most exhilarating part of the whole
thing
okay um
getting getting the actual coverage in
getting like like sending you know an
article to my client and like hearing
him say listen omri this article this
podcast this pr item whatever has really
accelerated my business my you know it
really made an impact on my life you
know so that's kind of
that's the most exhilarating thing
you know i think that a lot of people
you know they look at perhaps pr or or
media and and some may
become skeptic about it some may not
understand
you know the importance of it but at the
end it's it's just the ability to to
share some of the most meaningful work
that you've been doing to the world and
and you know i'm looking at a lot of
these incredible companies building
incredible incredible things that have
perhaps have a hard time really
fine-tuning the message because
sometimes it's hard to dilute you know a
work of a hundred people over a course
of three years to you know a 500 word
article that makes people understand
what what it is we're working about here
and so i i definitely think the work
that you're doing is is important
it's an important service not just to
the companies but at the end to people
to understand what's happening there and
how can different people get involved so
i'm really really thank you for your
time thank you for your energy i
appreciate
your time here very much in your work
and i i particularly enjoy reading your
newsletters so thank you very much for
sending those and stay safe and stay
healthy only thank you very much you too
man have a good one
[Music]